This expression should be pretty familiar
to you by this point. This is the rigid body
equations of motion of a serial link robot
manipulator. We have an inertia term; Coriolis
and centripetal term; gravity term; the torque
applied the robot; joint acceleration; and
joint velocity.
This expression is also known as the inverse
dynamics. We can think of it as a function
that maps the motion of the robot Q, Q-dot
and Q-dot-dot, to the torque that needs to
be applied to the robots' joints. We take
this expression and re-arrange it. We end
up with an expression for Q-dot-dot, and we
can integrate Q-dot-dot with respect to time
to get Q-dot, the joint velocity and we can
integrate it again to get the joint position.
This set of equations is referred to as the
forward dynamics. This is a function that
maps the torque that we applied to the robot
to the joint position, velocity and acceleration.
So, these forward dynamics are used to simulate
robot motion. If I know the torques and forces
that I'm going to apply to the robot manipulator
and then I can compute Q, Q-dot and Q-dot-dot
as a function of time.
Let's have a look at how we can use the forward
dynamics to simulate the motion of a complex
6-axis robot like the PUMA 560. I'm going
to start by loading a model of the PUMA 560
into my workspace as we've done a number of
times before and I'm going to invoke a Simulink
model that is provided with the Robotics Toolbox,
and this is what it looks like. It's quite
a simple model. It contains a robot with no
Coulomb friction, and connected to an animation
or plotting block. And the robot is driven
by zero torques. So if you imagine a robot
sitting in a normal configuration and I turn
off all the joint torque, the robot is going
to collapse under its own weight.
So, I can run that simulator and here we see
the PUMA robot and it's collapsing under gravity,
and because of the joint friction, the energy
is rapidly dissipated and the robot is left
in a downward pointing configuration.